# Identify Capabilities of the Computer Vision Service 



## Classification Types, Project Types, and Domains

In the Custom Vision projects that you create, you will be asked to determine the project type, classification type, and domain. The service offers two project types, Classification and Object Detection.  Classification is the area we are concerned about in this topic.  There are two options available for classification, Multilabel and Multiclass. Multilabel refers to an image having multiple tags while the Multiclass only has a single tag per image.

The service also provides some prebuilt domains for classification.  They are as follows:

- General - Optimized for a broad range of image classification tasks. If none of the other domains are appropriate, or you're unsure of which domain to choose, select the Generic domain.
- Food - Optimized for photographs of dishes as you would see them on a restaurant menu. If you want to classify photographs of individual fruits or vegetables, use the Food domain.
- Landmarks - Optimized for recognizable landmarks, both natural and artificial. This domain works best when the landmark is clearly visible in the photograph. This domain works even if the landmark is slightly obstructed by people in front of it.
- Retail - 	Optimized for images that are found in a shopping catalog or shopping website. If you want high precision classifying between dresses, pants, and shirts, use this domain.
- Adult - Optimized for adult oriented content
- General (compact) - Optimized for the constraints of real-time classification on mobile devices. The models generated by compact domains can be exported to run locally.
- Landmarks (compact) - Optimized for the constraints of real-time classification on mobile devices. The models generated by compact domains can be exported to run locally.
- Retail (compact) - Optimized for the constraints of real-time classification on mobile devices. The models generated by compact domains can be exported to run locally.

Once you have built your classifier, added images, trained and published it, you should consider how to improve the classification.  The following are recommendations from Microsoft on improving your classifier:

- Data Quantity Considerations - This is more important for your starting point.  The recommendation is to use at least 50 images.  The rationale behind this thought is that fewer images may result in a condition known as overfitting. If you are creating a classifier for apples vs. citrus, and you've used images of apples in hands and of citrus on white plates, the classifier may give undue importance to hands vs. plates, rather than apples vs. citrus.
- Data Balance - Using 500 images for one label and 50 images for another label makes for an imbalanced training dataset. This will cause the model to be more accurate in predicting one label than another. You're likely to see better results if you maintain at least a 1:2 ratio between the label with the fewest images and the label with the most images. For example, if the label with the most images has 500 images, the label with the least images should have at least 250 images for training.
- Variety - This concept focuses on variety in the images such as different backgrounds, different lighting, object size, camera angle, and style of photo.

Once you have addressed the above considerations, train the model again, then use new images to test the prediction results.   This can be a continuous cycle until you get the prediction accuracy you are looking for.
